# About Quotations

This project involves developing a simple Web Application that displays quotations based on context such as date, event, or degree of relevance. An example context would be to display a quotation by a famous historical personality on his/her birthday. Another one, to display a quotation relevant to a current event. A last one, where date or event releavance is not available, have the relevance be based on keywords association.

Quotations are often a powerful way to convey meaning, inspiration, and emotion in just a few words. The effect can be even more powerful when the quotation is associated with a specific context. From a development standpoint, a tool can be easily created to uncover these associations. In addition, since quotations and information about the authors who inspired those quotations is readily available online, much of the data can be easily mined using Web automation tools.


## Components

This project is still evolving but my initial specification will include the following components:

* More detailed description of the targetted functionality including use cases.
* Listing of the data elements that will be required for this application.
* Schema (i.e., ER diagram) that captures the data elements and their relations (to be stored in a relational database).
* A set of Web automation tools written in Perl to mine much of the data and dump it to text files (since not all quotations are created equal, I will pare down the initial dump)
* A Web Framework (I have picked Django/Python for its simplicity and versatility). Through this framework we will also specify the design of the back-end database schema and go into more implementation details (including client-side scripting)
* A set of database loader scripts that takes as input the text file(s) generated by the Web automation tools.

## Description

As mentioned, in the interest of making this a _simple_ Web Application, below are my initial use cases:

1. The home page by default displays the most relevant quote associated with the current date along with a brief bio about the author (if no date-specific relevance is found, an association derived from keyword relevance is made). This is our _detail_ view. An example date-relevant quotation and bio might be the one below if the current date is October 2nd:

> "The future depends on what we do in the present." - Mahatma Gandhi
>
> Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, born on this day 1869, was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist, and political
> ethicist, who employed nonviolent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India's independence from British Rule, 
> and in turn inspire movements for civil rights and freedom across the world (source: extract from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahatma_Gandhi))

1. Refreshing the home page displays the next-most relevant quote (or, if none available, one based on keyword relevance). Still on _detail_ view, an example keyword-relevant quotation using the current month might be the one below if a specific-date context is not available:

> "As full of spirit as the month of May, and as gorgeous as the sun in Midsummer" - William Shakespeare
>
> William Shakespeare (bapt. 26 April 1564 – 23 April 1616) was an English poet, playwright, and actor, widely regarded as 
> the greatest writer in the English language and the world's greatest dramatist. He is often called England's national poet 
> and the "Bard of Avon" (or simply "the Bard"). His extant works, including collaborations, consist of some 39 plays, 154 
> sonnets, two long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated 
> into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright (source: extract from [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Shakespeare))

1. A search field allows a user to enter a search term and return a list (ordered by relevance) of quotations associated with that term. The number returned can be specified from a selection widget (i.e., in increments of 5 or 10). This is our _list_ view that shows only the quotation and author associated with each returned item along with a link to the _detail_ view (that includes the author bio as showbn above)

That's it for use cases (at least for now)


